# Masters-Project
This project studies assess the bias and gain in efficiency by the combined analysis of survey and population data after dealing with missing data using Multiple Imputation (MI) and Complete Case Analysis (CCA) methods where the outcome of interest is either binary or time-to-event with the help of simulation study. 
It is carried out in two parts, the first part consists of simulation studies(survival.Rmd) and the second deals with empirical data of Ischemic Heart Disease records(healthy_new.Rmd) obtained from hospital register data and from the surveys conducted in Finland. The R file named survival_compilation.R used for creating the required figures and tables from the simulation study as in the pdf named MS_thesis.pdf.  
# Simulation Study
A data with 10<sup>5</sup> observation is created for 5 variables which includes both continous(x<sub>1</sub>, x<sub>2</sub>, x<sub>3</sub> and x<sub>4</sub>) and categorical variable (x<sub>5</sub> consisting of 4 categories by controlling their frequency and OR). Similarly ~240 such data sets (simulations) are created.\
The variables x<sub>1</sub> and x<sub>2</sub> are created for the whole 10<sup>5</sup> data while we introduced some missingness in the rest of the variables. Then we tried to handle the missing data using MI and CCA method and compared its efficiency by using error plots (created using the file survival_compilation.R) etc.   
# Empirical Study
An empirical study of the Ischemic Heart Disease(IHD) data set was carried out with the use of the file healthy_new.Rmd. The data was obtained from the Finnish Institute of Health and Welfare, Helsinki (THL) database.\
Here we combined the health register data carrying information of the birth, disease history and death for almost all the people living in Finland with the survey data comprising lifestyle (such as smoking, drinking etc which can act as a risk factor for the IHD) details of a very small subset of the population. This combination created an enormous amount of missing data.\
Hence we tried to handle this missing data using MI and CCA in order to obtain an accurate health estimate as compared to that obtained by only using register data. 
